README.md, before:

# Rhein FC Website

![Responsive screens](/assets/images/readme-img/responsive-screens.png)

This website hopes to provide up to date information for the football club Rhein. The site will targeted towards players looking to join a new team or just looking to play some extra football. It will also be useful for current squad members providing dates and times for upcoming games amongst other things.

## Website developers goals

This website has been created to help advertise the football club to the public. The club can provide users with continually updated stats and standings as well as times and locations where people can get involved. Users will also have a chance to register with the club.

## New user goals

•	User can find information about the club 

•	User can find time and location of the clubs open training session 

•	User can register with the club

## Returning user goals

•	User can find out about upcoming matches

•	User can see the current league standing

•	User can find up to date player stats

•	User, if not yet registered, can sign up with the club 


## User stories

### As a club manager:

• I would like to portray the club values to potential new players.

• I need to ensure that new and current players are provided with all the latest club news and information.

• I would like to advertise weekly training and its location for new and existing players.

### As a new player:

• I would like to know time and location of weekly training sessions

• I would like to contact the manager or club secretary to organise a trial

• I would like to join a group of like minded individuals who also enjoy football.

• I would like to find out the standard of team I am potentially joining

### As a returning player:

• I would like to find out upcoming fixtures.

• I would like to check my season statistics and club standing

## Website structure

The website has clean and simple design allowing for an easy and user friendly experience. The site works well and is consistent on all devices maintaining a good user experience and high levels of satisfaction. There will be some interaction elements for the user mainly in the form of hover effects and flip cards on the team members page.

## Wireframes

## Surface

## Colours

### Colours used throughout the site:

•	Background, heading and social media link colour : #0F74BC

•	Font colour: #3a3a3a and #fff

•	Button colour: #f16c6b

## Fonts

For headings the font I used was Roboto and Lato was used to compliment it within paragraphs and other text elements 

## Images

### I used images from:

•	The site Unsplash.com which has been credited in the relevant section

•	The twitter page of photographer nick, credited in the relevant section


## Features

The website will consist of 4 accessible pages via the use of the navigation bar and home link via the logo. The site will have 2 more pages; a 404 error page and a confirmation page once the form has been completed.


## Existing features

## Navigation Bar

Navigation bar will be consistent across all pages on the website. It is fully responsive and will adapt to all screen size. It will link to the team, fixture and sign up page. The main logo will be used as a link back to the home page.
The navigation bar will allow to user to access all parts of the site without the need of the back button.

## Home Page image

The home page uses a photo of the subject mater to convey to the user what the website will focus on. It also contains text overlay to provide the user the primary information about the club.

## The Rhein Way section 

The Rhein way section will provide further info about the club and provide the user with the benefits of joining a football team. The user will see there’s more than just playing matches when you join a team

## Where to find us

This section will provide the user with the location of training and home matches as well as the time of training.

## Footer

The footer section will provide the user with links to social media platforms. The links will open in a new tab. The footer is consistent on all pages


## Team

The team page will introduce the user to the current squad players. The page has been separated into player positions. 

This page will give the user more interactive elements in the form of hover and flip effects. When the user hovers over a certain player their card will flip revealing their season statistics.

## Fixtures

This section will allow the user to see the teams upcoming matches. Date, time, location and playing surface has been provided.


## League standing


This section will provide the user with the team’s current league position

## Sign Up

This section allows users to register with the team by completing the sign up form. The form will ask the user to provide their name and contact information; email and phone number. They can also specify which position they play

## Features to be added 

Once the site has been active for a period of time other features that will be added include

•	Gallery page to include any images and videos taken from the teams latest matches

•	Shop page to sell the teams home and away kit to users

## Technologies used

•	HTML5

•	CSS

•	Font Awesome

•	Google fonts

•	GitHub

•	Gitpod

•	Wireframe.cc

## Testing

### Functionality testing

Throughout the project I used the Chrome developer tools to continually check new implementations and solve any problems which I encountered.

## Compatibility testing

The site has been tested across multiple platforms and devices. Initial testing was completed on chrome developer tools ensuring the site was fully responsive across all screen sizes.

Further testing was done using different hardware devices including Samsung Galaxy S10, Iphone5, Apple Ipad. The site was also used by club members with site running successfully on a wide range of devices.

## User stories testing

### As a club manager:

• I would like to portray the club values to potential new players.

The club philosophies are clearly presented in the Rhein Way section in a way to appeal to users

• I need to ensure that new and current players are provided with all the latest club news and information.

Users can clearly access upcoming fixtures and league standing on the Fixtures page. Up to date player stats can also be found on the Team page. 

• I would like to advertise weekly training and its location for new and existing players.

New and existing users can find the time and location for training sessions in the Where to find us section

### As a new player:

• I would like to know time and location of weekly training sessions

New users can find the time and location for training sessions in the Where to find us section

• I would like to contact the manager or club secretary to organise a trial

New players can register with the club by completing the sign up form

• I would like to join a group of like minded individuals who also enjoy football.

Users will be able to get involved with weekly training sessions with the potential of joining the team

• I would like to find out the standard of team I am potentially joining

The teams league standing can be found in the fixtures page

### As a returning player:

• I would like to find out upcoming fixtures.

Fixtures can be found on the fixtures page

• I would like to check my season statistics and club standing

Players can access there current statistics via the team page and access their avatar


## Issues during site development

### Player images and positioning their divs

I used divs for the player images and used the command display: inline in order to display the images horizontally across the screen. Following this I tried to centre the elements but could only do so by adding in margin-left values. This worked for my primary desktop screen but was not responsive when I tested the site on other screen sizes. I decided to use unordered list with the player images in order to centre the elements using text-align: center.

### Statistic pages for individual players was not user friendly

After completing the unordered list for the squad, I added links to their individual statistic page for each player. Clicking on each player and returning to the team page was very time consuming and with a relatively large squad it did not provide a satisfactory user experience. Therefore, I decided to implement a flip card effect revealing the player stats once the mouse hovered over the chosen player. 

### Player images and positioning their divs – take 2

In order to complete the flip card effect, I had to revert to using divs rather than an unordered list. This presented me with my initial problem of centring the flip card divs. I decided to do some further research and found the flexbox method. Using the code display: flex, flex-direction: row, flex-wrap: wrap and justify-content: center, this allowed me to achieve my desired layout. This approach was also responsive on all screen sizes.

### League table became squashed on mobile and other smaller devices

I had an issue with the structure of the league table on smaller devices. As the screen size became smaller the text began to become squashed with some team names requiring 3 lines. I solved this by implementing a scroll function for the smaller screen sizes.

## Validator Testing

•	HTML - No errors were returned when passing through the official W3C validator

•	CSS - No errors were found when passing through the official (Jigsaw) validator


## Deployment

The project was deployed on GitHub.Pages. The project was developed using Gitpod where the git version control system was used to commit all changes. The changes were then saved to Github using the push command.

In order to deploy the project I had to:

•	Log in to GitHub and click on repository to deploy (Rhein-FC)

•	select Settings and find GitHub Pages section 

•	from source select none and then Milestone-Projects branch.

•	click save and page was deployed after auto-refresh.
The live link to site is as follows: https://jamesfahey.github.io/Rhein-FC/


## Credits

## Content

•	Throughout the project I used the Code Institute videos and tutorials as a guide and ideas for elements to incorporate.

•	w3schools.com was used to help create the flip cards and the league table

•	blog.duda.com was used to create a responsive google map for the site

## Media

### Images 

•	Unsplash.com - nathan-rogers-ObhCU6Vhoe8-unsplash

•	The photos on the main page are taken by photographer @NickGerrard

### Map

•	Taken from Google maps

### Design and content inspiration

•	Manutd.com

•	Everton.com 


## Thanks

Special thank you to Adegbenga Adeye for his support and ideas throughout the project

Commit message:

add screenshots to features section of readme

README.md, after:

# Rhein FC Website

![Responsive screens](/assets/images/readme-img/responsive-screens.png)

This website hopes to provide up to date information for the football club Rhein. The site will targeted towards players looking to join a new team or just looking to play some extra football. It will also be useful for current squad members providing dates and times for upcoming games amongst other things.

## Website developers goals

This website has been created to help advertise the football club to the public. The club can provide users with continually updated stats and standings as well as times and locations where people can get involved. Users will also have a chance to register with the club.

## New user goals

•	User can find information about the club 

•	User can find time and location of the clubs open training session 

•	User can register with the club

## Returning user goals

•	User can find out about upcoming matches

•	User can see the current league standing

•	User can find up to date player stats

•	User, if not yet registered, can sign up with the club 


## User stories

### As a club manager:

• I would like to portray the club values to potential new players.

• I need to ensure that new and current players are provided with all the latest club news and information.

• I would like to advertise weekly training and its location for new and existing players.

### As a new player:

• I would like to know time and location of weekly training sessions

• I would like to contact the manager or club secretary to organise a trial

• I would like to join a group of like minded individuals who also enjoy football.

• I would like to find out the standard of team I am potentially joining

### As a returning player:

• I would like to find out upcoming fixtures.

• I would like to check my season statistics and club standing

## Website structure

The website has clean and simple design allowing for an easy and user friendly experience. The site works well and is consistent on all devices maintaining a good user experience and high levels of satisfaction. There will be some interaction elements for the user mainly in the form of hover effects and flip cards on the team members page.

## Wireframes

## Surface

## Colours

### Colours used throughout the site:

•	Background, heading and social media link colour : #0F74BC

•	Font colour: #3a3a3a and #fff

•	Button colour: #f16c6b

## Fonts

For headings the font I used was Roboto and Lato was used to compliment it within paragraphs and other text elements 

## Images

### I used images from:

•	The site Unsplash.com which has been credited in the relevant section

•	The twitter page of photographer nick, credited in the relevant section


## Features

The website will consist of 4 accessible pages via the use of the navigation bar and home link via the logo. The site will have 2 more pages; a 404 error page and a confirmation page once the form has been completed.


## Existing features

## Navigation Bar

Navigation bar will be consistent across all pages on the website. It is fully responsive and will adapt to all screen size. It will link to the team, fixture and sign up page. The main logo will be used as a link back to the home page.
The navigation bar will allow to user to access all parts of the site without the need of the back button. It will also include a link to the team sponsor Koop.

![Navigation bar](/assets/images/readme-img/nav-bar.png)

## Home Page image

The home page uses a photo of the subject mater to convey to the user what the website will focus on. It also contains text overlay to provide the user the primary information about the club.

![Navigation bar](/assets/images/readme-img/welcome-image.png)

## The Rhein Way section 

The Rhein way section will provide further info about the club and provide the user with the benefits of joining a football team. The user will see there’s more than just playing matches when you join a team

![Navigation bar](/assets/images/readme-img/rhein-way.png)

## Where to find us

This section will provide the user with the location of training and home matches as well as the time of training.

![Navigation bar](/assets/images/readme-img/where-to-find.png)

## Footer

The footer section will provide the user with links to social media platforms. The links will open in a new tab. The footer is consistent on all pages

![Navigation bar](/assets/images/readme-img/footer.png)

## Team

The team page will introduce the user to the current squad players. The page has been separated into player positions. 

This page will give the user more interactive elements in the form of hover and flip effects. When the user hovers over a certain player their card will flip revealing their season statistics.

![Navigation bar](/assets/images/readme-img/our-team.png)

## Fixtures

This section will allow the user to see the teams upcoming matches. Date, time, location and playing surface has been provided.

![Navigation bar](/assets/images/readme-img/fixtures.png)

## League standing


This section will provide the user with the team’s current league position

![Navigation bar](/assets/images/readme-img/league-table.png)

## Sign Up

This section allows users to register with the team by completing the sign up form. The form will ask the user to provide their name and contact information; email and phone number. They can also specify which position they play

![Navigation bar](/assets/images/readme-img/sign-up.png)

## Features to be added 

Once the site has been active for a period of time other features that will be added include

•	Gallery page to include any images and videos taken from the teams latest matches

•	Shop page to sell the teams home and away kit to users

## Technologies used

•	HTML5

•	CSS

•	Font Awesome

•	Google fonts

•	GitHub

•	Gitpod

•	Wireframe.cc

## Testing

### Functionality testing

Throughout the project I used the Chrome developer tools to continually check new implementations and solve any problems which I encountered.

## Compatibility testing

The site has been tested across multiple platforms and devices. Initial testing was completed on chrome developer tools ensuring the site was fully responsive across all screen sizes.

Further testing was done using different hardware devices including Samsung Galaxy S10, Iphone5, Apple Ipad. The site was also used by club members with site running successfully on a wide range of devices.

## User stories testing

### As a club manager:

• I would like to portray the club values to potential new players.

The club philosophies are clearly presented in the Rhein Way section in a way to appeal to users

• I need to ensure that new and current players are provided with all the latest club news and information.

Users can clearly access upcoming fixtures and league standing on the Fixtures page. Up to date player stats can also be found on the Team page. 

• I would like to advertise weekly training and its location for new and existing players.

New and existing users can find the time and location for training sessions in the Where to find us section

### As a new player:

• I would like to know time and location of weekly training sessions

New users can find the time and location for training sessions in the Where to find us section

• I would like to contact the manager or club secretary to organise a trial

New players can register with the club by completing the sign up form

• I would like to join a group of like minded individuals who also enjoy football.

Users will be able to get involved with weekly training sessions with the potential of joining the team

• I would like to find out the standard of team I am potentially joining

The teams league standing can be found in the fixtures page

### As a returning player:

• I would like to find out upcoming fixtures.

Fixtures can be found on the fixtures page

• I would like to check my season statistics and club standing

Players can access there current statistics via the team page and access their avatar


## Issues during site development

### Player images and positioning their divs

I used divs for the player images and used the command display: inline in order to display the images horizontally across the screen. Following this I tried to centre the elements but could only do so by adding in margin-left values. This worked for my primary desktop screen but was not responsive when I tested the site on other screen sizes. I decided to use unordered list with the player images in order to centre the elements using text-align: center.

### Statistic pages for individual players was not user friendly

After completing the unordered list for the squad, I added links to their individual statistic page for each player. Clicking on each player and returning to the team page was very time consuming and with a relatively large squad it did not provide a satisfactory user experience. Therefore, I decided to implement a flip card effect revealing the player stats once the mouse hovered over the chosen player. 

### Player images and positioning their divs – take 2

In order to complete the flip card effect, I had to revert to using divs rather than an unordered list. This presented me with my initial problem of centring the flip card divs. I decided to do some further research and found the flexbox method. Using the code display: flex, flex-direction: row, flex-wrap: wrap and justify-content: center, this allowed me to achieve my desired layout. This approach was also responsive on all screen sizes.

### League table became squashed on mobile and other smaller devices

I had an issue with the structure of the league table on smaller devices. As the screen size became smaller the text began to become squashed with some team names requiring 3 lines. I solved this by implementing a scroll function for the smaller screen sizes.

## Validator Testing

•	HTML - No errors were returned when passing through the official W3C validator

•	CSS - No errors were found when passing through the official (Jigsaw) validator


## Deployment

The project was deployed on GitHub.Pages. The project was developed using Gitpod where the git version control system was used to commit all changes. The changes were then saved to Github using the push command.

In order to deploy the project I had to:

•	Log in to GitHub and click on repository to deploy (Rhein-FC)

•	select Settings and find GitHub Pages section 

•	from source select none and then Milestone-Projects branch.

•	click save and page was deployed after auto-refresh.

The live link to site is as follows: 

https://jamesfahey.github.io/Rhein-FC/


## Credits

## Content

•	Throughout the project I used the Code Institute videos and tutorials as a guide and ideas for elements to incorporate.

•	w3schools.com was used to help create the flip cards and the league table

•	blog.duda.com was used to create a responsive google map for the site

## Media

### Images 

•	Unsplash.com - nathan-rogers-ObhCU6Vhoe8-unsplash

•	The photos on the main page are taken by photographer @NickGerrard

### Map

•	Taken from Google maps

### Design and content inspiration

•	Manutd.com

•	Everton.com 


## Thanks

Special thank you to Adegbenga Adeye for his support and ideas throughout the project 

## Screenshots
